You clicked on this video because you
don't have very much time to spend on
growing your Instagram, but you know
that you need to grow your Instagram in
order to grow your business. You clicked
on the right video because I am going to
give you the five things that you need
to be doing in 2026 to grow your
Instagram in less than 10 minutes per
day. And let's get right into it because
the first thing that you need to be
doing is actually a setting that you
need to turn on just once. It's not
something that you're going to have to
do every single day, but this setting is
going to make a huge difference to
growing your following and engaging your
followers. Both of these settings are
available through Many Chat, and they
are number one, the follow to DM. This
is a brand new feature that was just
launched at the end of 2025 that allows
you to instantly and automatically send
a message to anyone the moment they
follow you. So once you turn this on, if
someone new visits your profile and they
click that follow button, they will get
a message from you right in that very
moment. Now, as you can imagine, this
can become very spammy and very
overwhelming and very off-putting for
new followers. So I do not recommend
using this feature as a way to sell or
get people on your email list or even as
a way to get them a free download. I
know it's free. I know it's super
valuable, but they just followed you. So
to use a dating analogy, don't propose
on the first date. Take your time a
little bit. Instead, use this feature as
a way to welcome them and just say, "Hi,
thank you so much for being here. Hi, I
appreciate you following me. Hey, I
appreciate you becoming a follower means
a lot." Something super simple and super
kind like that is all you need to do.
But this is a great way to familiarize
your new followers with number one,
getting direct messages from you because
you hope that in the future they're
going to be direct messaging you, you're
going to be direct messaging them. It's
just a great way to kind of break the
ice. Speaking of, you could say, "Hi,
thank you so much for following me." And
you could say, "If you want more info on
blank, you could check out this post." I
do think it's okay if you want to link
them to one of your posts or maybe tell
them to check out the pinned post on
your profile. But again, I would not try
to sell anything. I wouldn't send them
to any links. But the second thing that
this feature does is it engages the new
followers so that they are more likely
to see your future posts. All you have
to do to set up the ManyHat new follower
automation is to go to the homepage of
ManyHat and then click on this button
that says say hi to new followers. Then
in the upper lefthand corner you can see
that it says when someone new follows
you, you can set a time delay. I do
recommend using a time delay because I
think it would be frustrating and maybe
even a little bit annoying if the second
you followed someone, you got an instant
message. So, I'm going to do a 5minut
time delay and then I'm going to click
on next to set up what is going to
happen next. As you can see, it says
they will get and then it has an opening
DM. This opening DM would be a great way
to send them a message if you wanted
them to have multiple messages sent or
kind of like opt into your Instagram
DMs, but that's not necessarily what I
recommend doing. So instead, we're going
to turn off the opening DM feature and
we are not going to turn on the ADM
asking for their email because again
we're not selling. We're not trying to
get them on our email list. We're just
trying to say thank you. So then we hit
next. It says and then they will get but
obviously there was nothing they got in
the first place. So then they will get
this message, a DM with a link, but
we're not going to add a link. I'm just
going to say thanks so much for the
follow. I appreciate you. and I'm going
to spell the word appreciate correctly.
All right, and that's it. That's
literally all we are doing with the
welcome message. Then we just press go
live and we're done. The second setting
that you need to turn on is also a
feature within many chat and it has kind
of the inverse name. This is the DM to
follow. And essentially what this
automation is is an automation so that
if someone requests a link from you,
they comment a keyword or they direct
message you with some specific trigger
word, ManyHat will check if they are
following you first, which of course
most people are. If they're asking for
your ebook, if they want to sign up for
your course, if they want to check out
your newsletter, they're probably
following you. But in case they aren't,
because not to get too ahead of
ourselves, but we are going to talk
about trial reels later today, which are
shown to nonfollowers. If someone wants
one of these things from you, if they
interact with your DM automation and
they're not following you, it can
automatically check that they're not
following you and then send them a
prompt asking them to follow before
sending them the ebook, the link, the
guide, whatever it is that you were
promoting in the first place.
>> All you have to do is go on the homepage
and then click on explore all templates.
And then I want you to scroll down and
click on this one that says follow first
then freebie.
Click setup template.
And now, as you can see, they have this
pre-built template with notes. These
little yellow bars are notes. And it
will walk you through. So you could turn
this on for a specific post. You could
use this for all posts. You could use
this for your next post. And basically
the way it will work is that they will
trigger the automation by commenting on
your post or reel. Then they will
receive this message automatically and
instantly from you making sure that they
follow you before you send them the free
guide, the free course, the download,
whatever it may be. Then this is where
the magic happens. As it says in this
condition, ManyHat will automatically
check if the person is following you. If
yes, we will send them the offer. We'll
send them the free guide, whatever it
was that they wanted. If no, we will ask
them to follow you. And as you can see,
here it is. If yes, boom, they can get
the free guide. If no, then there's a
follow-up message basically saying,
"Wait, are you sure? This is a little
embarrassing. Something went wrong."
This is a very powerful way to not just
give people the links that they are
looking for, but also make sure that
they are following you in the process.
The second thing that I would recommend
doing if you only have 10 minutes per
day to grow on Instagram is posting five
trial reels. Like I mentioned a moment
ago, trial reels are a kind of reel that
only reach nonfollowers. they are not
shown to your existing followers and so
they can be a really powerful tool for
growth. But Instagram has some unequal
rules as to how many trial reels each of
us is allowed to post per day or per
month. But according to the most recent
reports, the lowest ceiling possible is
five trial reels per day. And so what
I'm recommending for you is to post no
more and no less than five trial reels
per day. And now I know at this point
you are scratching your head because I
know you're like, "How the flip am I
supposed to post five trial reels every
single day if I only have 10 minutes?" I
mean, we're only a few minutes into this
episode and according to this math, you
have at most 2 minutes per reel. Don't
worry, I've got you covered. We have an
upcoming episode of Build Your Tribe
coming out in the next few weeks. That's
going to be my entire formula that I
actually just created and went through
myself that allowed me to create over
150 trial reels in less than about 15 or
20 minutes. And so essentially what that
upcoming video is going to walk you
through is how to batch your content,
how to make a bunch of trial reels so
that every single day you just have to
post them. Unfortunately, there's
currently no way to schedule trial
reels. Adam Moseri has said that they
are working on that and so hopefully in
the future, this isn't even something
that you have to do manually each day.
But of the five trial reels that I
recommend that you post per day, four of
them are batchable. Four of them could
be made ahead of time so that you can do
maybe an hour of work once a month or an
hour of work every couple of months and
then you can every single day just take
a few seconds to actually press the post
button. But as I just foreshadowed,
there are five different kinds of trial
reels that I do recommend posting each
day. And they are as follows. Number
one, the this is a trial reel trial
reel. This is a style of trial reel
where you straight up call out the fact
that this is a trial reel. You call out
the fact that the viewers do not follow
you. You call out the fact that this is
reaching them because they've never seen
your content before. And then you use
that as an opportunity to introduce
yourself or introduce your page or your
content and invite them to follow. This
is a very simple and easy style of reel
to create. And even if you didn't batch
this ahead of time, this is something
that probably wouldn't take more than a
few seconds. Pick a random audio that
you like. Grab a random B-roll of
yourself that relates to your niche. And
then slap some text on the screen that
essentially says, "This is a trial reel.
You're seeing this because you don't
follow me. Every single day I post
healthy gluten-free recipes that you can
make in less than 15 minutes. Hit follow
if that's something you're into. The
second kind of trial reel that I
recommend posting every single day to
maximize your growth on Instagram is
recreations of your past best performing
content. Now, unfortunately, Instagram
no longer gives views to content that is
a direct duplicate of something you've
posted before. So unlike the past where
you could take a reel that you've
previously posted that went viral and
then just keep repeating it over and
over again, uploading the exact same
reel as a trial reel, now what you have
to do is make a recreation, make a
re-edit or tell the same joke but in a
new setting, refilm it. Basically, you
have to modify or create an entirely new
reel so that it is distinct from the
original creation. But it's totally fine
to use the same joke, tell the same
story, start with the same hook, or
cover the same topic. For example, one
of my best performing reels that I post
every few months, honestly, is a video
of me holding up an emoji trophy and
then I add text on the screen that says,
"This award is for blank." And maybe
it's people who haven't used whatever
the super popular trend is right now. Or
maybe there's some sort of sarcastic
comment. Or maybe this award is for
anyone who doesn't own a Le Boooo,
something that's kind of silly, fun, and
also relates to my niche. And so I take
that B-roll video and I just change out
the text to update whatever the new
award is or whatever is trending right
now or whatever sarcastic joke I want to
make. And that is a repeatable formula
that works really well and that is one
of my five daily trial reels. The third
kind of trial reel that I recommend
posting every single day is let's call
it lowhanging fruit. This might be a cap
cut meme template. This might be a
trend. This might be a popular lip sync
or voice over audio. This might be a
viral reel template that everyone is
using right now to recap their 2025.
Basically, the goal here is not to spend
a bunch of time, energy, or effort to
create a super awesome reel because the
reality is most of your trial reels will
not get that many views. They will not
be shown to that many people. Maybe
you'll get a couple hundred or a few
thousand views if you're lucky, but
there's no point in spending more than a
few minutes making your trial reels
because usually the reward is not worth
the investment. So, the third kind of
reel is just something that you can make
quickly. And again, that one is totally
batchable. You could go to Cap Cut and
scroll through their meme templates and
just create a bunch of them at once. You
could scroll through Instagram's list of
trending audios and just pick out a
bunch that you want to use or a bunch of
templates that you want to recreate. or
you can sign up for our email list where
every single week we send you five
trending audios and five meme ideas if
you want to do that. It's totally free
and super helpful. I know a lot of
Instagram memberships that cost 20, $30,
$50 a month for what we send out every
single week in our email newsletter. So,
I'll put that link down in the show
notes below, but if you want to type it
into your browser directly, it's
instaclubhub.com/newsletter.
Daily trial reel number four is a trial
reel with DM automation. A lot of you
might be familiar with DM automation,
which is the thing where creators will
say, "Comment the word blank," and
you'll get this thing. It's one of the
best, if not the best way on Instagram
to increase engagement, which increases
views, which can increase sales. And of
course, we've been talking about trial
reels, so you're familiar with trial
reels. What a lot of people might be
having a light bulb moment about right
now is that you can actually bring these
two things together. By slapping a DM
automation call to action onto your
trial reel, just like you would any
other reel that you share to your normal
feed, you can use ManyHat for DM
automation on your trial reels. And when
people comment that keyword, like I
mentioned in the first point today, they
will receive an automatic message that
checks if they're following. because
it's a trial reel, they're probably not.
So, they will be prompted to follow you
and then once they do, they can get that
free download, the guide, the PDF,
whatever it is that they wanted in the
first place. This is a super powerful
tool. I used this recently on a trial
reel that ended up getting over 1
million views, which again, that's a
million views from nonfollowers only.
And I added DM automation to that. And
so I got thousands of keyword hits, thus
thousands of leads for our business from
one single trial reel that honestly only
took me a few seconds. That daily trial
reel is batchable. The final daily trial
reel that I would argue is probably the
toughest one to batch. The one that you
may not want to batch, and that is using
trial reels as they were intended.
Basically, the fifth daily trial reel is
a true test, a true trial, a true
experimentation. Maybe there is a
certain meme that you're just not sure
if it's going to hit. Maybe there's a
joke that you're still kind of figuring
out how you want to tell it. Maybe
there's a new style of content that you
want to experiment with. Maybe there is
a certain way of phrasing things that
you just haven't quite figured out yet.
You're not sure how to say it concisely
yet still in a way that makes sense.
That's what the fifth kind of trial reel
can be used for. Basically,
experimenting or triing your different
ideas. And I realized that we've made it
through this far into the video and I
haven't even talked about what you
should post for your actual followers.
We talked about trial reels which reach
non-followers and we talked about
setting up things so that new followers
or new potential followers get automatic
messages. But what should you do for
your existing followers, right? Because
the purpose of Instagram is not just to
grow a following but to nurture and
connect with your existing followers to
hopefully turn them into customers.
Well, if you have a very limited amount
of time, like 10 minutes per day, then I
would suggest focusing on lowhanging
fruit reels. Now, I think carousels can
be a really great way to grow on
Instagram. And I think that carousels
are really going to have a resurgence in
2026. According to a metricool study
from the end of 2025, carousels do get
more engagement, a higher engagement
rate, and more views from your existing
followers than reals do. But with all
that being said, reels have a
significantly higher amount of views and
reach from non-followers. To say it
another way, if you want to reach new
people, if you want to grow your
audience and also serve your existing
followers at the same time, reels are
probably your best bet. But not all
reels are created equally. Literally,
some reels take hours to create and some
reels take a few seconds to create. If
you have a very limited amount of time,
rather than spending, let's say, 10
minutes today, 10 minutes tomorrow, and
10 minutes the next day, so 30 minutes
in total, working on one single really
highly produced great reel that you
think is just going to knock it out of
the park and go viral. I would instead
focus on spending 10 minutes each day,
so a shorter amount of time getting an
actual reel posted. And I believe this
is more effective for a few reasons.
Number one, how often have you made a
reel that you were like, "This is going
to go viral. This is so good. This is
like the best reel I've ever made."
Maybe you spent a long time, maybe even
hours, editing it, and then you post it
and it absolutely flops. It's crickets.
Like, you were so excited to post it,
but then when you did, it just didn't
perform well. Yeah, me too. That happens
to me all the time. And so, that should
be evidence for yourself, that's
evidence for me, that we're not very
good judges of our own content. And it's
usually the content that we spend the
most time, energy, and effort editing
and refining and script writing and
filming and critiquing and gimmicky
edits and all this crap. It ends up
doing the worst. And we don't need to
get into why that is. But let that be
one reason that you embrace lowhanging
fruit, that you embrace just pressing
post, that you embrace not overthinking,
but intentionally underthinking what
you're creating. I'm also a proponent of
spending 10 minutes on three separate
posts rather than 30 minutes on one post
because statistically speaking, the more
you post, the more you grow. I get asked
all the time, "Brock, how much should I
post? Do I need to post every day? Do I
need to post multiple times a day? What
happens if I miss a few days?" And I
always respond with the same eight
words. The more you post, the more you
grow on Instagram. The more frequently
that you post to your feed, so we're not
talking about stories, just reals,
photos, and carousels. the more you
grow, the more followers you gain.
Multiple studies have shown this, and
the head of Instagram himself has even
confirmed it recently on one of his own
Instagram stories. Now, hold up. Does
that mean that you need to post every
day or even multiple times a day? No,
not necessarily. But it does behoove you
to do so. And I believe that one of the
ways that you can achieve a higher
frequency of posting without burnout or
overwhelm is instead of trying to make a
post that is the quality level of
something that takes 30 minutes but do
it in 10, just make a post that's
lowhanging fruit, make a post that would
take you 10 minutes in 10 minutes.
Basically, however much time you have,
that's how much time you have. And that
needs to be that has to be good enough.
And the final reason that I'm a big fan
of increasing your quantity or posting
one B minus post every single day
instead of one A+ post once a week is
because reps practice. The more times
you post, the better you get at posting.
Now, if you're just posting,
throwing spaghetti against the wall, and
hoping it sticks, that ain't going to
work. I'm never going to encourage
anyone to intentionally lower their
quality, but I believe most of us stress
out way too much over quality,
overanalyzing, overthinking. We're going
to come back to this point later. And
instead, they would benefit way more
from just taking a deep breath and
pressing post. And just so we're clear,
when I say lowhanging fruit, that's
going to look different for everyone.
For some people, they can make B-roll
reels super fast. For some people, they
can make cap cut memes really fast. For
some people, they can see a trend or
find a popular audio and come up with an
idea or a way to fit it into their niche
super quickly. These things take
practice, and with time, they get more
efficient and they get faster. But
ultimately, my advice remains the same.
Focus on the easier content rather than
the stuff that's going to take you a
long time. Before we get into my
ultimate and favorite time-saving hack,
there's something that you might have
clicked on this episode expecting to
hear about, and that's engaging with
your followers. engaging with your
followers, responding to DMs, answering
comments, that sort of thing, has zero
algorithmic benefit. And what I mean by
that is that Instagram does not reward
you for interacting with other people. I
don't care how many comments you send. I
don't care how many pages you go like
and engage with. I don't care how many
DMs you respond to. Instagram's not
like, "Oh, Susie was a good little girl
and she was super engaged today, so
let's push her post out to more people."
No, that's not how it works. Now, human
nature might increase the likelihood
that if you send someone a DM, they're
like, "Oh, hey, well, what's Suzie up
to?" and then they click on your
profile. Or if you leave a nice comment
on someone else's page, they might go
and check out your profile. There is
reciprocity. Is that the right word? I
don't know why I'm trying to sound fancy
right now. There is goodwill, right? So,
people will be more likely to interact,
engage, view, and maybe even follow you
if you engage with them first. But
that's like maybe the 17th thing I would
put on your daily Instagram to-do list.
Yes, it's important to treat people like
people, and yes, it's important to build
community, but if you only have 10
minutes a day on Instagram, you would
benefit way more from posting than you
would on spending 5 minutes answering
your DMs or spending 15 minutes engaging
with other accounts. Again, just to make
myself clear, algorithmically, no
benefit. Human nature might give you a
small benefit, but because of those two
things, it's not really worth your time
unless you have a good amount of time.
But without further ado, the fourth
thing that I would recommend doing if
you only have 10 minutes or less per day
to spend on Instagram is what I call
upycling. Upycling is essentially a
strategy where you take any post that is
more than 90 days old and you post it
again directly. Same caption, same
audio, same everything. or you make a
slight refresh, modification, maybe
re-edit, maybe you rewrite the caption,
maybe you change out the audio in the
background, but it's essentially just a
slight recreation of something that you
have previously posted. Now, there's two
updates to this strategy that I need to
make. The first one, and I kind of
alluded to this earlier, you cannot
upcycle trial reels. So, if you've
previously posted something as a trial
reel, unfortunately, you cannot post it
again as a trial reel. And from our
understanding, if you post a normal
reel, you can no longer upcycle that as
a trial reel. So basically, trial reels
are off limits if that post exists
anywhere else on Instagram. The other
update that I need to give you is that
in the past when I've talked about this
strategy, I've told you to take your
best content from 90 days or more ago
and post it again. But now, my
recommendations have changed. My
recommendation is to take any content
that is more than 90 days old and post
it a second time. And to take that a
step further, I recommend posting every
post at least three times before you
decide to retire it. Basically, just
because it didn't perform well the first
time doesn't mean it won't perform well
the second time. And inversely, just
because it went viral the first time
doesn't mean it's guaranteed to go viral
the second time. So, if you're watching
this episode at the very end of 2025 or
the beginning of 2026, go back to like
summer of 2025 and take some of those
posts, posts that would still be
relevant today, right? Like don't post a
a post with you on the beach in the
middle of winter. Don't post a post
about like seven Fourth of July recipes
in the middle of February. But as long
as it's still relevant, as long as the
content of the post would still make
sense today, post it a second time. You
do not need to delete the original. You
do not need to archive the original. You
do not need to edit the original. You do
not need to say, "This is a repost." You
don't need to do any special hashtags or
any special tricks. Literally, just post
the post a second or a third or a fourth
time. Once the post has not performed
well for three consecutive appearances,
that's when I would allow you to retire
the post. At that point, you can say,
"Hey, maybe this topic is off. Maybe the
way I'm presenting it is off. Maybe the
editing was bad. Maybe people just don't
like this post." And so you don't have
to necessarily figure out why, but at
that point, you can shelf it. You can
say, "Hey, I'm not going to post this
again." But it needs to have at least
three attempts before it strikes out.
And last, but not least, maybe actually
the biggest timesaver of all is to fck
perfection. And I hope you can figure
out what I'm saying there. Stop trying
to make perfect posts. Stop overthinking
everything that you create. Stop
spending so much time, energy, and
effort script writing and trying to come
up with the perfect editing and adding
all these gimmicky transitions. And then
you're going to add fancy closed
captions. Then you're going to do this,
and then you're going to think about it
for another few days. Then you're going
to edit it some more. And then you're
going to overthink and then you're going
to think, "Oh, is I should really really
post that? That kind of reminds Just
post." Stop overthinking your damn
content. No one's paying that close of
attention to you. No one's going to
remember what you post. I would say a
few days later, but honestly, no one's
going to remember what you posted a few
hours after you posted it. So, please
just press post. Stop overthinking. Stop
overstressing and lean in to
underthinking. Lean into imperfect
posts. Lean in to the raw, real,
imperfect content. That's what we say we
all want on Instagram. We all scroll
through Instagram. We're like, I wish
there was more people being real and
honest and authentic and they stopped
filtering and photoshopping and trying
to make everything perfect. Be the
change you want to see. create posts
quickly. Posts sometimes without
spellchecking. I do that sometimes. I
make spelling errors. I make typos. I
forget to turn on automations. I make
posts that flop. I make posts that fail.
I have a great idea and I'm going to
whip it up really quick. And sometimes
it absolutely bombs and does terribly.
Just press post. That is how you learn.
That is how you grow. That is how you
improve. That is how you get more
efficient. And ultimately, that's how
you have success on Instagram. Thank you
so much for listening today. Don't
forget to hit subscribe because every
single week on this podcast, I upload
new episodes about growing on social
media with the most efficient strategies
possible because everything I do is
driven by three words: in less time. I
want to help you grow and see results
and get more views and get more
engagement and have success in your
business in less time. Thank you so much
for watching and as always, happy
networking.